>> This is "Nuevo."
On November 26, 2019,
something extraordinary
happened over the
skies of Washington,
probably a new warning,
probably a new demonstration.
This is the investigation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo,"
with Jaime Maussán.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> On Tuesday,
November 26, 2019,
an object that could not
be identified invaded
the restricted airspace
of Washington, DC,
causing the evacuation
of the Capitol Building.
And also the White House was
closed under extreme security
measures--
a real mystery that has
not been solved so far.
What was it that
flew that morning
over the most restricted
space in the American Union.
No one saw anything.
Yet the world's most
sophisticated security systems
detected an unknown presence.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It is an even greater
mystery if we consider that,
on December 19, 2018, a pyramid
of more than one hundred meters
in length was presented
above the Pentagon,
without generating any kind of
response, not even an alarm.
Despite the fact
that the giant was
maintained over the
Pentagon, no one
seemed to notice its presence.
A case that has proven
its authenticity,
this happened on November
26 at approximately 8:30
in the morning,
according to the media.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Later, an attempt would be
made to explain why extreme
security measures
had been taken,
although these explanations
were very unconvincing.
>> It's not the first time--
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> A Pentagon
official tells us--
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> --on a radar screen.
>> --find anything.
What caused the--
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> --windows, trying to
figure out what was going on.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Official reports indicate
that a flock of birds,
a weather balloon, or
something other than a plane
or helicopter appears to
have triggered the alert,
sending fighter jets and
helicopters to patrol the area,
and locate, or even shoot
down, the perpetrator.
Some of the first reports
of a possible air threat
came just before 8:30 AM
local time in Washington,
with the United States Capitol
Police and its Secret Service
later restricting
access to various sites,
and telling people in the White
House and the Capitol Building
to take refuge instead.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
45 minutes later,
Capitol Police said
the situation had
passed without incident,
and the closings
ended soon after.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Before the blockades ended,
the United States and Canada
Aerospace Defense
Command in North America,
responsible for coordinating
the defense of aerospace
in both countries,
including Washington, DC,
tweeted that, "We have
commissioned the aircraft
to respond.
Details later."
NORAD planes are on
site and responding.
"The plane is not considered
hostile at this time,"
the command said in a second
tweet, which he later removed.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Pentagon spokesman, Lieutenant
Colonel Chris Mitchell
told "CNN" pretty
much the same thing,
that it was a plane that
was not considered hostile.
Neither the Pentagon, the
United States Northern Command,
nor NORAD issued an
official press release
about the incident.
"NORAD responded to an event in
the Special Flight Rules Area
surrounding Washington,
DC this morning.
NORAD directed" a
helicopter "to investigate
and the event was resolved
without incident."
The active of the US Coast
Guard helicopter USA Dolphin
MH-65 was displaced to the area.
This helicopter also sometimes
operates from a separate site
at Reagan National Airport.
The MH-65, among its
missions in the area,
is on call specifically
to intercept
low and slow-moving targets.
"Fox Television" also reported
that unspecified fighter
jets and a Capitol
Police helicopter
responded to the incident.
The fighter jets in question
were almost certainly
the Viper F-16C of the
National Guard, which were also
sent to defend the area.
Ground-based air
defense systems that
also help protect the Capitol
were also undoubtedly on alert
during the incident.
As for the actual
target, these assets
were looking for in the sky
at no time during the incident
that any US government
agency identified the threat
beyond claims that it was
an airplane, which NORAD,
at least by now, has terminated.
Sam Sweeney, a journalist
for "DC Morning"
and "ABC7" television
in Washington,
later tweeted, citing
unidentified sources,
that a "flock of birds
appearing on radar"
had been the real culprit.
"The comments you are hearing
about a flock of birds
are speculation," another
unidentified NORAD
public affairs
officer said, adding
after those initial reports
that they could neither
"confirm "nor deny that
it was a flock of birds.
Using the MH-65 to intercept
whatever appeared on the radar
screens indicates that
the target, real or not,
was seen as slow, very slow.
This is backed by another
"CNN" report, citing
an unidentified source from the
United States Capitol Police
that described the radar
track as a "slow drop."
Another unidentified
US government official
said the Federal
Aviation Administration
claimed that air
traffic controllers also
did not see the alleged
runway on their radar screens.
However, another
unidentified source
told this outlet that it could
have been a "weather anomaly."
While exactly what
happened and why,
the incident and these
sometimes conflicting reports
remain unclear, highlighting
the difficulties
facing the US government
to protect the nation's
capital from air threats,
especially smaller drones.
This had already become
remarkably evident
after Doug Hughes, a
former postal worker
turned political
activist, flew a gyro
in DC restricted airspace,
and landed on the Capitol lawn
in 2015.
He was hoping to deliver letters
to each member of Congress
protesting what he said
was widespread corruption
and dysfunction.
Hughes later pleaded
guilty to a felony,
and spent 120 days
in prison, followed
by a year of probation.
Subsequently, the United States
government made improvements
to the air defense network
in and around Washington, DC,
an area collectively referred
to as the "National Capital
Region."
This included adding
more suitable systems
to detect and track
targets with smaller radar
cross-sections, such as
ultralight aircraft and drones.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Depending on the
exact circumstances,
a flock of birds, for example,
might look the same to radars
as a swarm of drones.
Nor would it be the
first time that radars
have confused large birds
with possible threats.
In a particularly notable
case in the 1950s,
a formation of Canadian
geese triggered
an alert from personnel working
on the NORAD Distant Early
Warning Line, DEW radar network,
which initially mistook them
for massive Soviet bombers.
When it comes to the air defense
network around Washington, DC,
even if it detects a real
threat, how to respond
remains complicated.
Firing ground to air
or air to air missiles
at a target over a
densely populated area,
especially on a
low flying target,
poses inherent risks of
causing collateral damage.
The use of automatic
cannons or machine
guns from airplanes
or ground locations
still presents dangers
for innocent bystanders.
It is evident that the
maximum security measures
were taken in Washington without
so far being able to determine
what happened.
The helicopters that
came to the area seconds
after the alert was
declared found nothing.
There was nothing in the
skies over Washington.
However, there is
another possibility.
On Saturday, July 19th,
1952, at 11:40 PM,
Edward Nugent, an air
traffic controller
at Washington National Airport,
today Ronald Reagan National
Airport, saw seven
objects on his radar.
These were 24 kilometers
south, southwest of the city.
There were no known
aircraft in the area,
and the objects were not
following established flight
paths.
Nugent's superior, Harry
Barnes, a high level airport air
traffic controller,
saw the objects
on Nugent's radar screen.
He later wrote, "We
knew immediately
that a very strange
situation existed.
Their movements were
completely radical
compared to those of
ordinary aircrafts."
Barnes sent two more controllers
to check Nugent's radar.
They reported that it
was operating normally.
Barnes then called another
airport radar center.
The controller there,
Howard Coughlin,
told Barnes that he also had
the objects on his radar screen.
In addition, Coughlin
stated that looking out
the window of the
control tower, he
could see one of the objects,
and more specifically,
a bright orange light.
I can't tell what's behind it.
At this point in the
night, other objects
appeared in all sectors
of the radar screen.
When they moved over the White
House and the United States
Capital, Barnes called
Andrews Air Force Base,
located 10 miles from
the national airport.
Although, Andrews
reported that they
had no unusual objects
on their radar,
an aviator soon called
the base's control tower
to report the sighting
of a foreign object.
Airman William Brady
who was in the tower
saw an object that appeared to
be like an orange ball of fire
dragging a tail or trail.
When Brady attempted to
alert the other staff
members in the tower,
the strange object
took off with incredible
speed, he stated.
Meanwhile, another person
at the control tower
of the national airport reported
seeing an orange disk nearby
at about 900 meters high.
On one of the airport
runways, S.C. Peterman,
a Capital Airlines pilot,
was waiting for permission
to take off in the
cabin of his DC4.
After spotting what he
believes to be a meteorite,
he was told that unknown
objects near his position
had been detected on the
control tower's radar.
For their part at
Andrews Air Force Base,
control tower
personnel were tracking
on radar what they believed
to be unknown objects.
But others suspected
and in one case
were able to demonstrate
that they were simply
stars and meteors.
However, Sergeant
Charles Davenport
observed an orange red
light to the south.
The light appears
to have stopped.
And then it has made a
sharp change in direction
in altitude.
This happened multiple times.
At one point, the two radar
centers at national airport
and the one at
Andrews Air Force Base
where tracking an object
floating on a radio beacon.
The object disappeared at
all three radar centers
at the same time.
At three in the morning, shortly
before two Newcastle Base Air
Force One F-94 Starfire
fighters in Delaware
arrived in Washington,
all the objects
disappeared from the reader
of the national airport.
However, when the
planes had to refuel,
the objects returned,
which convinced Barnes
that the UFOs were
monitoring air traffic,
behaving accordingly.
The objects were last detected
on radar at 5:30 near dawn.
E.W. Chambers, a civilian radio
engineer from the Washington
suburbs, observed five
huge discs suspending
in a loose formation.
They were leaning up and to
the left in a steep climb.
A few days later, Major
General John Samford,
director of intelligence
for the Air Force,
gave a press conference
to try to explain
the extraordinary
phenomenon that
had caused great
expectation in Washington
and throughout
the United States.
>> And analyzed to the best of
our ability anything in the air
that may have the possibility of
threat or menace to the United
States.
In pursuit of this
obligation, since 1947
we have received and analyzed
between 1 and 2,000 reports
that have come to us from
all kinds of sources.
Of this great mass of reports
we have been able adequately
to explain the
great bulk of them,
explain them to our
own satisfaction.
We have been able to
explain them as hoaxes,
as erroneously identified
friendly aircraft,
as meteorological or
electronic phenomenon,
or as light aberrations.
However, there have been
a certain percentage
of this volume of
reports that have
been made by credible
observers of relatively
incredible things.
It is this group of
observations that we now
are attempting to resolve.
Our basic difficulty
in dealing with these
is that there is no measurement
of them that makes it possible
for us to put them
in any pattern that
would be profitable
for a deliberate custom
sort of analysis to
take the next step.
We have, as of date, come
to only one firm conclusion
with respect to this
remaining percentage.
And that is that it does not
contain any pattern of purpose
or of consistency
that we can relate
to any conceivable threat
to the United States.
>> These are some of the images
captured during that night
in Washington.
Thousands of people
observed the UFOs
during the nights of
July 19 through 20, 1952.
But the UFOs would
return a week later.
The sightings from
July 19 to 20, 1952
were front page in newspapers
across the country.
One example was the headline
of a newspaper from the "Cedar
Rapids Gazette" said in Iowa
which said, "Swarm of Saucers
Over the Capital."
By coincidence,
Captain Edward Ruppelt,
supervisor of the Blue Book
Project from the Air Force
was in Washington and
requested a car to investigate.
He waited for several hours.
The car was denied,
and he, therefore,
decided to return to his base
in Ohio Wright-Patterson.
However, before leaving he
spoke with an Air Force radar
specialist, Captain
Roy James, who
conceded that certain unusual
weather conditions could
have caused such objects
to appear on radar screens.
It is surprising that almost
70 years later explanations
are alike.
In 1952, it was
a climatic event.
In 2019, it was a flock
of birds that no one saw.
However, it is more surprising
that between 3:00 and 4:00
in the morning a
large object was video
recorded directly on the
Pentagon at very low altitude
by four different witnesses,
and that in that occasion
no security measure
had been taken.
It is very hard to believe
that it was not detected.
Surely that information is
now a national security issue.
A confrontation
with such an object
could have generated a reaction.
The combat jets could have been
shut down, and without a doubt,
as if it were a
movie, a direct war
had been launched at
once against the forces
that they would have been
considered as invasive.
>> The great giant of Washington
showed up the same night that
the United States Air Force
Space Combat Command Project
was declared official.
This November 26 probably it
was a new warning that we cannot
use the space to make war.
First, in December,
they presented us
with a huge object.
Then the second
time in November,
an invisible one appeared,
proving that they are so far
advanced that we
cannot match them.
The air belongs to us.
But outer space belongs to
all the intelligent creatures
of the universe.
Just think about
that for a moment.
I am Jaime Maussán and I wait
for you in the next episode
of "Nuevo".
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presented "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussán.